Add fedcm docs (#23675)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/fedcm_api/index.md

---
title: Federated Credential Management API (FedCM)
slug: Web/API/FedCM_API
page-type: web-api-overview
tags:
  - API
  - Experimental
  - Overview
  - Reference
browser-compat:
  - api.IdentityCredential
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{DefaultAPISidebar("FedCM API")}}

> The Federated Credential Management API (FedCM) API provides a standard mechanism for identity providers to enable identity federation services in a privacy-preserving way, without relying on third-party cookies and redirects, and a JavaScript API for sites that rely on those services for sign-in functionality to make use of them.

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
The **Federated Credential Management API** (or _FedCM API_) provides a standard mechanism for identity providers to enable identity federation services in a privacy-preserving way without relying on third-party cookies and redirects, and a JavaScript API for sites that depend on those services for sign-in functionality to make use of them.
```

- Session Refresh without top-level navigation or popups.

FedCM aims to work around this problem, providing a dedicated machanism for federated identity flows on the web, and enabling supporting browsers to provide special UI elements on RPs, allowing users to choose an IdP account to use for sign-in.

There are two sides to using the FedCM API — IdP integration with FedCM, and RP sign-in using the JavaScript API.

## IdP integration with FedCM

To integrate with FedCM, an identity provider needs to do the following:

1. Provide a well-known file to identify the IdP.
2. Provide a config file and endpoints for accounts list and assertion issuance (and optionally, client metadata).

### Provide a well-known file

There is a potential privacy issue whereby an [IdP is able to discern whether a user visited an RP without explicit consent](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230). This has tracking implications, so an IdP is required to provide a well-known file to verify its identity and mitigate this issue.

The well-known file must be served from the [eTLD+1](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#site) of the IdP at `/.well-known/web-identity`.

> For example, if the IdP endpoints are served under `https://accounts.idp.example/`, they must serve a well-known file at `https://idp.example/.well-known/web-identity`. The well-known file's content should look have the following JSON structure:

Author: Heh ... no, it's a typo ;-)

I've updated it to "should have" in my next commit.

RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to make a request for users to sign in to the RP with the IdP, using the available IdP config and endpoints (as described above). A typical request would look like this:

```js
async function signIn() {
  const identityCredential = await navigator.credentials.get({
    identity: {
      providers: [{
        configURL: 'https://accounts.idp.example/config.json',
        clientId: '********',
        nonce: '******'
      }]
    }
  });
}
```

The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file, the RP's client identifier issued by the IdP, and an optional random nonce that ensures the response is issued for this specific request, preventing {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

The browser requests the IdP config file and carries out the sign-in flow detailed below. For more information on the kind of interaction a user might expect from the browser-supplied UI, see [Sign in to the relying party with the identity provider](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/fedcm/#sign-into-rp).

> ### FedCM sign-in flow

Author: I like it too. I've basically copied the sign-in flow structure from one of your articles but added more details on what happens at each stage.

2. From the `configURL` provided in the `get()` call, the browser requests two files:
   1. The well-known file (`/.well-known/web-identity`), available from `/.well-known/web-identity` at the [eTLD+1](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#site) of the `configURL`.
   2. The config file (`/config.json`), available at the `configURL`.

   These are both a [`GET`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET) requests, which don't have cookies and don't follow redirects. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning who made the request and which RP is attempting to connect.

   For example, the config file request would look like so:

   ```http
   GET /config.json HTTP/1.1
   Host: accounts.idp.example
   Accept: application/json
   Sec-Fetch-Dest: webidentity
   ```

   > **Note:** All requests sent from the browser via FedCM include a `Sec-Fetch-Dest: webidentity` header to prevent {{glossary("CSRF")}} attacks. All IdP endpoints must confirm this header is included.

3. The IdP responds with the requested files. The config file URL is validated against the list of valid config URLs inside the well-known file.

> 4. The browser makes a request to the `accounts_endpoint` inside the config file for the list of accounts that the user is currently signed in to on the IdP. This is a `GET` request with cookies, but without a `client_id` parameter or the {{httpheader("Referer")}} header. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning which RP the user is trying to sign in to.

Reviewer 2: The header we refer to is now `Origin` instead of `Referer`. Could you change all reference to `Referer` to `Origin`?
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/fedcm-updates/#:~:text=for%20the%20id%20assertion%20endpoint%2C%20idps%20need%20to%20check%20the%20origin%20header%20(instead%20of%20the%20referer%20header)%20to%20see%20if%20the%20value%20matches%20the%20origin%20of%20the%20client%20id.

Author: Change made.
